NLP | Gradadmissions
​
Important: Transcripts and Letters of Recommendation are required of all applicants.

Read the Application Instructions​ page for full details.
​
See the test score requirements for this program.
​
Below are specific requirements also needed for this program:
Résumé or CV (can also provide a link to your own website)
A Statement of Purpose is required:
Please describe your plans for graduate study or research and for your future occupation or profession. Include any information that may aid the selection committee in evaluating your preparation and qualifications for graduate study at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Recommended length is a concise 2-4 pages, single-spaced.
A Personal History Statement is also required:​
This statement will be used in conjunction with your application for graduate admission and financial support. Note that the Personal History Statement should not duplicate the Statement of Purpose. Recommended length is a concise 1-3 pages, single-spaced.
UC Santa Cruz is interested in a diverse and inclusive graduate student population. In an essay, discuss how your personal background informs your decision to pursue a graduate degree. Include any educational, familial, cultural, economic, or social experiences, challenges, or opportunities relevant to your academic journey; how you might contribute to social or cultural diversity within your chosen field; and/or how you might serve educationally underrepresented segments of society with your degree.
Statement of Financial Need Instructions:​
This optional Statement of Financial Need will help the Natural Language Processing Program determine your eligibility for fellowship support for your graduate education at UC Santa Cruz. Submitting a Statement of Financial Need does not guarantee funding.​
The Statement of Financial Need should not exceed one page and should fully explain, in your own words, your need for financial assistance.
Please also address personal resources and other fellowships or grant opportunities that you will pursue to help cover your graduate education expenses.
Master’s students in Baskin School of Engineering programs are typically self-supported. While a small number of partial fellowships may be extended to eligible NLP students each year, the NLP program encourages students to seek external support for covering graduate education expenses.
​
