FAQs for Students: Graduation
Q: How do I apply for graduation? 
A: You can apply from your student portal the first time you apply to graduate
Log in to MyUCSC. Select the Student Center tile.
In the Academics section go to Other Academic Information. Choose Apply for Graduation.
Verify your major(s)/minor(s) are correct.
Select your graduation term from the drop-down menu. You can find application deadlines in the Academic and Administrative Calendar. Select Continue.
Verify your information is correct and select Submit Application.
If you are reapplying to graduate or the link is not available to you download the Apply or Reapply to Graduate form and submit it to our office.
If you are applying after the last day of the quarter you must submit the Apply or Reapply to Graduate form.
If you have missing requirements to graduate in spring, you can submit the Reapply to Graduate form to registrar@ucsc.edu to be activated for summer enrollment. This does not require approval from your college advisor.
Q: Where can I find the graduation application deadline? 
A: Application deadlines are in the Academic and Administrative Calendar under the heading "Announcing Candidacy for Degree/Apply to Graduate."
Q: I applied for graduation but need to apply for a different term. How do I change my application for graduation? 
A: If you need to reschedule your graduation application, download the form at Apply/Reapply to Graduate.
Q: My application for graduation was denied. What are my next steps? 
A: Carefully read the email that you received for the specific missing one or more graduation requirement(s). Reviewing your Degree Progress Report from your MyUCSC portal may also be helpful. Denial reasons include but are not limited to: missing GEs, missing college requirements, exceeding the pass/no pass %, senior residency not being met, etc.
Most importantly, contact the office(s) or department(s) listed in the email to find out what happened as soon as possible. If there is an error in your UCSC record, please have your college or major advising get in contact with the Office of the Registrar as soon as possible so we may award your degree.
If a requirement is missing and you need more time to complete the remaining degree requirement(s), please submit a Reapply to Graduate form when you have completed all degree requirements. Be sure to check the deadlines listed in the Academic and Administrative Calendar.
Q: My application for graduation was denied for missing EAP grades. What are my next steps? 
A: If you applied to graduate before EAP grades were available for review from your MyEAP portal, continue to monitor your Degree Progress Report for when EAP grades have come in and been added to your record. As soon as you see this, please email the Office of the Registrar to obtain a Backdated Degree Request form.
For EAP specific program questions or the status of your grades from the external institution, please email Global Engagement.
Q: How do I sign up to participate in a commencement ceremony? 
A: Read the commencement page for information related to your college commencement ceremony. Contact the commencement office with questions. Commencement is separate from applying to graduate so make sure you also follow the instructions above.
Q: How long will it take for my degree to post and get my diploma? 
A: Our office begins reviewing applications beginning the last day of the quarter. It takes at least 8 weeks to review all applicants. Degrees are awarded and denied during this process. Diplomas are mailed to the permanent address in your student portal about three to four months after the last day of the quarter in which you graduated.
Q: How can I tell if I have graduated? 
A: Log into MyUCSC.
Log into MyUCSC and select on Student Center. ("Full Site Login" for mobile devices) and select Student Center.
Select Student Advising Summary at the top of the Student Center.
Select the Degree tab. Your degree status will be displayed.
If your degree has been conferred your “My Academics” tile will no longer show academic records and access. When reviewing, make sure you are looking at “Student Center.”
Q: I thought I graduated but I didn't. What do I do now? Can I have my degree backdated? 
A: If you applied to graduate, the first step is to confirm that you met all degree requirements. You will want to check your @ucsc.edu email, as any denial information is sent to your email account. Make sure you work with your college and/or major advisers to come up with a plan on completing the requirements. You will need to reapply for the quarter in which all requirements are satisfied.  If you did not apply to graduate, but have met all graduation requirements for graduation, you may be eligible for a backdated degree. Confirm with your college and major that all requirements are complete, and email the Office of the Registrar to request a Backdated Degree Request be emailed to you. The Office of the Registrar with the college and department will determine the quarter that all requirements were completed. Students that have completed all course work and have met all graduation requirements can be considered for a backdated degree to the quarter in which all requirements were satisfied. There is a $100 fee for processing a backdated degree.
Q: I need to show proof of my degree. 
A: If your degree has been awarded:
Your official/unofficial transcripts will show your degree.
You may access online verification of degree completion through the National Student Clearinghouse.
You may also request a Certificate of Completion of Degree Requirements.
If you have applied to graduate and your degree has not yet been awarded:
If you have completed all degree requirements and all grades are posted you can order a Certificate of Completion of Degree Requirements.
Q: What is a CeDiploma and how can I order one? 
A: CeDiplomas are certified electronic diplomas that are secured credentials that students may share electronically. Students that graduated Spring 2022 and later will receive a complimentary CeDiploma. See the diplomas page for more information.
Q: What information will be on my diploma? 
A: Undergraduate diplomas include:
Diploma Name.
Degree (Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, or Bachelor of Music), major(s), and date of degree. If you have two degrees—for example, both a B.A. and a B.S.—both degrees will be listed on one diploma.
University honors and any honors awarded in the major are listed.
Undergraduate diplomas do not show major concentrations except for the B.A. in Literature.
Minors do not appear on the diploma, but are on your official/unofficial transcripts.
Graduate diplomas include:
Degree type (Certificate, Master of Arts, Master of Science, Doctor of Philosophy, etc.) and your program of study, which may include a designated emphasis.
Graduate program diplomas do not indicate any honors.
Q: How do I make certain my diploma shows my name correctly. 
A: Diplomas display your Diploma name, including middle name, in all capital letters, along with any accent marks. Prefixes do not appear on the diploma, but the suffix will appear if you provide one.  For students who need to do a name change, please follow the steps for name change here.
Q: My diploma is missing/destroyed. How can I get a replacement? 
A: There is only one original diploma. To request a replacement diploma, submit a Diploma Re-Order Request Form. Replacement diplomas have a small notation that states it is not the original diploma and signatures may vary. If the original diploma arrived damaged, return the damaged diploma to UC Santa Cruz for a complimentary reorder.
Q: I have a hold on my record and cannot receive my diploma. How can I release the hold? 
A: If a diploma hold has been placed on your account, then UCSC's vendor will not issue your diploma until the outstanding balance to the University is resolved. You can review your account via the My Account $ tile in MyUCSC. Please contact Student Business Services if you have questions about what you owe the University.   Holds will be released automatically overnight once payment has been made in full and the vendor notified to send your diploma.