Dental | UC Santa Cruz

What you need to know
With dental coverage through UC SHIP, you get two regular checkups and cleanings with a Delta Dental PPO dentist every year — at no cost to you.
Although you can get care from any dentist, you will typically pay less when you see a Delta Dental PPO network dentist.
You don’t need to get a referral for dental care.
How your dental coverage works
What you pay for dental services
How your dental coverage works
UC SHIP has contracted with the Delta Dental Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) network to accept specific fees for the services their dentists perform. Dentists who are not part of this network have not agreed to these fees. So, if you get dental care from an out-of-network provider, you will need to pay the difference between the amount UC SHIP covers and the price your dentist charges you. You can find complete plan details in the Delta Dental Benefit Booklet [PDF].
To get care, you will need to provide your Delta Dental ID number to your dentist. You can use the mobile app (see below) to access your ID number, print an ID card from the Delta Dental website, or order a card from Delta Dental customer service at (800) 765-6003.
Except for preventive and diagnostic services (your twice-yearly checkups and cleanings), you will pay a deductible before the plan begins to share costs with you. To learn which expenses and services are not covered, see the Delta Dental Benefit Booklet [PDF].
Choose your provider from the correct networkDelta Dental has many dental networks, so make sure you’re selecting a dentist from the Delta Dental PPO network. You’ll pay more if you choose a dentist from another network.
Finding a network dentist
The easiest way to access Delta Dental’s list of dentists near you and to estimate costs is to download the Delta Dental app from the App Store or Google Play.
Alternatively, you can find a Delta Dental PPO network dentist — and estimate costs for common dental procedures — using tools on the Delta Dental website or by calling customer service at (800) 765-6003.
How much will it cost?Use the Delta Dental Care Cost Estimator tool to get estimated cost ranges for common dental care needs.
Take me to the tool
Back to top
What you pay for dental services
As a reminder, except for the diagnostic and preventive care you get during annual checkups, you will pay an annual deductible for services before plan coverage kicks in. Certain expenses and services are excluded from coverage.
Delta Dental PPO network
Annual deductible
Preventive and diagnostic services: $0
Other services: $25 per person
Annual benefit maximums
$1,000 per member per benefit year
Preventive and diagnostic services
Includes oral exams, cleanings (twice every 12 months), X-rays (one bitewing series every 12 months), and fluoride treatment: $0
Basic services
Includes fillings and extractions, composite fillings on back teeth, root canals, periodontics, oral surgery, and night guards: 20% coinsurance after deductible
Major services
Includes prosthodontics, inlays and onlays, crowns and cast restorations: 30% coinsurance after deductible
Out-of-network
Here’s what you’ll pay when you get care from dentists who aren’t part of the Delta Dental PPO network, even if they’re part of another Delta Dental network. You’ll need to pay out of pocket at the time of service and then submit a claim to be reimbursed up to the following limits.
As a reminder, when you use an out-of-network dentist, you’ll pay the difference between the amount Delta Dental covers and the bill you get from your dentist.
Annual deductible
Preventive and diagnostic services: $0
Other services: $50 per person
Annual benefit maximums
$750 per member per benefit year, not to exceed a total of $1,000 for network and out-of-network benefits combined
Preventive and diagnostic services
Includes oral exams, cleanings (twice every 12 months), X-rays (one bitewing series every 12 months), and fluoride treatment: 20% coinsurance (deductible does not apply)
Basic services
Includes fillings and extractions, composite fillings on back teeth, root canals, periodontics, oral surgery, and night guards: 40% coinsurance after deductible
Major services
Includes prosthodontics, inlays and onlays, crowns and cast restorations: 60% coinsurance after deductible
For more information and a complete list of dental plan benefits, review the Delta Dental Benefit Booklet [PDF]. You’ll also find Spanish and Mandarin versions of the booklet on the Forms and documents page.
