FAQs for Students: Grading
Q: How do I change my grading option? 
A: Log into MyUCSC. Select the Enrollment tile.
Select Enrollment: Edit a Class. Select the correct term and Continue.
Choose the class you would like to change from the drop down menu. Select Proceed to Step 2 of 3.
If you are enrolled in a discussion section, your selected section will be displayed. Select Next.
In the Grading drop down menu, choose Graded or Pass/Not Pass (undergraduates) or Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory or ABC/NC Grading (graduates). Undergraduate students who are not in good academic standing will only have a Graded option. Select Next.
Review your selections and select Finish Editing if correct.
Q:What is the deadline? 
You can find the exact date on the Academic and Administrative Calendar. This is a hard deadline, and the Office of the Registrar cannot extend the deadline. If you feel you have extenuating circumstances, contact your college advising office for options.
Q: Can I convert my Pass/No Pass grades into letter grades for a GPA based on my performance? 
A: After the grade option deadline has passed, the Office of the Registrar cannot convert pass/no pass grades to letter grades, or to a GPA. If your ability to graduate may be affected by a pass/no pass grade option, contact your college advising office for more information.
Q: How do I request an Incomplete grade and what is the process? 
A: You can request an Incomplete from your instructor if your work so far is passing and the quarter has not ended. It is up to the instructor’s discretion to grant an Incomplete. Undergraduates have up to one quarter to submit the final coursework to the instructor. Graduate students are allowed up to one calendar year.
If the course work isn’t submitted by the deadline the Incomplete grade lapses to an F or NP, depending on the grading option in effect. If the coursework is submitted by the deadline and the instructor has not entered the final grade the Incomplete will automatically lapse to a non-passing grade. The instructor still has the ability to enter the final grade.
Your instructor may require you to fill out a Petition for Removal of Incomplete. This form must be submitted to the Office of the Registrar by the instructor/department, not the student. However, your instructor can change an Incomplete grade to the final grade in the system without using this form.
Q: How do I check my grades or GPA? 
A: Log into MyUCSC and select the My Academics tile.
For a specific quarter, select Grades and then the correct quarter. You can see your grades for that quarter as well as your term (quarter) GPA and cumulative (total) GPA.
To view all of your grades, select Course History.