Overview | UC Santa Cruz

What you need to know
The University of California Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) provides high-quality, affordable and convenient coverage that protects students from unexpected health care costs. The plan is ACA-compliant and built especially for students. Students are actively involved in the plan’s design.
Because all UC students are required to have medical insurance, registered students are automatically enrolled in UC SHIP.
Your health and health needs come first — always.
This has been the UC SHIP guiding principle since its inception.
The UC SHIP difference
UC SHIP covers medical, pharmacy, dental, vision, and mental health and substance use services for UC undergraduate and graduate students and their eligible dependents.
More than just health insurance, UC SHIP is a dynamic, self-funded, pooled risk and purchasing program that’s tailored specifically for UC students. Unlike other plans, UC SHIP leverages the collective strength of students across UC campuses, ensuring they have access to the comprehensive care they need — on and off campus.
As a self-funded plan, UC SHIP is able to keep premiums low by avoiding the costs that fully insured plans incur, like paying dividends to stockholders and taxes on premiums. With students actively involved in its design, UC SHIP ensures that student health needs are met effectively and economically. This means that you can focus on your academic journey and not stress about the cost of taking care of your health.
Proof of insurance (IRS Form 1095-B)
Under the federal reporting requirement, health care plans and insurance companies must report member information to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that can be linked to a health plan that is certified minimum essential coverage. Member information includes the name, address and Social Security number — including covered students and dependents.
UC SHIP’s enrollment administrator, Academic HealthPlans (AHP), may contact you via email to get important information that is not on file with the registrar’s office. You can also email AHP to provide the requested information.
For proof of coverage, all UC SHIP members can electronically access their IRS Form 1095-B — the form that proves you have the minimum essential coverage required by the ACA. To access your 1095-B, follow the instructions in the 1095 User Guide [PDF].
How the plan works
Under the UC SHIP plan guidelines, the first place you should seek care is your campus student health center (SHC). Many services, including preventive care, are offered there at no cost or for a low copay. If you need care the SHC can’t provide, you’ll receive a referral for care outside the SHC.
Depending on the services you receive outside the SHC, you may need to pay an annual deductible before UC SHIP begins to share costs with you. Once you meet that deductible, you’ll pay coinsurance for services, and UC SHIP will cover the remainder of the cost, up to the maximum allowed amount for that service.
You’re protected financially with an annual limit on your out-of-pocket costs. Once you reach this limit, the plan picks up 100% of the costs for that year.
For details, review the Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) [PDF].
How to join the UC SHIP Executive Oversight Board
You can make a difference in the health services offered on campus as a representative to the UC SHIP Executive Oversight Board (EOB).
As members of the UC SHIP EOB, students join university administrators and staff in reviewing and evaluating the benefits that UC SHIP offers and the plan’s financial performance. This shared governance structure ensures there is organized dialogue between students and administration about UC SHIP. Here’s how you can get involved.
Start with the SHAC or student government
Your campus Student Health Advisory Committee (SHAC) advances student input on the health and counseling needs and the health services offered on your campus. The SHAC and/or student government selects one graduate and one undergraduate student representative to the UC SHIP EOB.
As EOB members, student representatives review and vote annually on the UC SHIP benefits (including medical, pharmacy, dental, vision, and mental health and substance use coverage) and meet each month during the academic year to review the financial performance of the plan. They also make recommendations about how to balance requests for new benefits and maintain affordable health plan costs for students.
EOB student representatives may receive stipends as compensation for participation on the EOB and its committees.
To learn more about the UC Santa Cruz Student Health Advisory Committee — including how to get involved — visit the SHAC webpage.
Contacts
Academic HealthPlans
(855) 427-3167: Purchase UC SHIP coverage(855) 247-2273: IRS Form 1095-BAcademic HealthPlans email1095-B Form email