FAQs for Students: Fees
Q: When are registration fees due?  
A: Refer to the Academic and Administrative Calendar or your billing statement for the payment deadlines. The UCSC Cashier must receive your payment for the current quarter's fees plus any unpaid prior charges by the deadline.
Q: Can I view my account online?  
A: Yes. Log on to MyUCSC, select Student Center, and scroll down to the Finances section. Your account is updated in "real time" so you can see anticipated aid, confirm that your payment was received, or confirm that other adjustments were made to your account after the billing statement was printed.
Q: I paid my fees, how can I confirm that my payment was received?  
A: Check your account on MyUCSC to confirm payment was received.
Q: I've been awarded financial aid, but it does not appear on my billing statement. What is the problem?  
A: For the answer to this and other Financial Aid questions, visit the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office.
Q: I am a graduate student. Whom do I contact with questions about my fees or my funding?  
A: First, check your account on the portal for updates. If you are enrolled and your funding does not appear on your account, contact your department adviser. Likewise, if you question your fee assessment (for example, if you think you are eligible for reduced fees), contact your department adviser.
Q: What do I do if I can't pay in full by the deadline?  
A: Sign up for the Deferred Payment Plan (DPP) and pay the first registration fee installment (plus any unpaid debt from prior quarters) by the deadline.  If you contracted for university housing, you can sign up for a Housing Payment Plan and pay the first housing installment by the deadline. DPP and Housing Payment Plans are not available over the Summer Session.
Q: My loan company is telling me I have to pay back my loans even though I'm still attending the university. What should I do?  
A: Make sure your college has updated your expected graduation date. To view this data, go to your Student Center, and open the Student Advising Summary; there, click on the Degree Tab.
Q: I'm receiving a scholarship, and they need proof that I'm enrolled at UCSC so that they can give me my award money. Can you help?  
A: You will need to request a certification of enrollment. See Enrollment Verification for information.
Q: What are course fees?  
A: Some courses have been approved for an additional course materials fee.