FAQs for Students: Degree Verification
Q: I need to show proof of my degree. What are my options?  
A: There are several ways to show proof of your degree:
Official Transcript
A transcript is an official copy of a student’s academic history at UCSC. A student’s degree is usually posted to their transcript within six weeks after the end of the quarter in which they applied to graduate. Order an official transcript from Transcripts Plus.
Unofficial Transcript
If you graduated from UC Santa Cruz since Fall 1986, you can access your unofficial transcripts on MyUCSC. To get a printed copy of the unofficial transcript, choose report type "Printable Transcript" when running the report. This produces a copy of the transcript as a printable PDF file that can also be saved.
If you do not know your log in information, contact the ITS HelpDesk at (831) 459-HELP.
Diploma
Diplomas are mailed to the active permanent address between two and three months after the quarter in which you graduated. Permanent address may be updated on MyUCSC. The name on your diploma will appear exactly as it does on university records.
Degree Verification
Online verification of degree completion can be accessed through the National Student Clearinghouse. Third parties may be directed to verify degrees through the National Student Clearinghouse.
Certificate of Completion
A Certificate of Completion is available to any student who has received a degree or has completed all requirements for the degree and has applied to graduate for a future quarter. Currently enrolled students or students who have not had all transcripts from other institutions evaluated are not eligible for a Certificate of Completion. Certificates of Completion indicate the student’s name, the date the degree was or will be awarded, the type of degree (B.A., B.S., etc), and the student’s major, college, and honors, if any. Use the Request for Certificate of Degree Requirements form.
Q: My diploma is missing/destroyed. How can I get a replacement?  
A: There is only one original diploma. To request a replacement diploma, notating the replacement, complete a Diploma Re-Order Request Form, attach a $75 check made payable to “UC Regents,” and send to the Office of the Registrar. Replacement diplomas can take anywhere from one to two months.
Q: I have changed my name since graduating from UC Santa Cruz. How do I get a diploma with my new name?  
A: If you have graduated and have had a legal change of name you may request a replacement diploma with the new legal name. Complete a Diploma Re-Order Request Form, attach the original diploma and legal documentation noting the change of name, and a $60 check made payable to “UC Regents,” and send to the Office of the Registrar.
Q: What is CeDiploma and how can I order one?  
A: CeDiplomas are certified electronic diplomas that are secured credentials that students may share electronically. Students who graduated spring 2022 and later will receive a complimentary CeDiploma. See the diplomas page for more information.