Your Career | Natural Language Processing M.S. Log In Search Facebook X nlp@ucsc.edu Home About Us Program Overview Apply News Contact YOUR CAREER Your Career in NLP According to a recent Statista report , the global Natural Language Processing market size is predicted to grow almost 14 times larger by 2025 than it was in 2017. The NLP M.S. program at UCSC provides students with the skills and in-depth knowledge of NLP algorithms, technologies, and applications that are in high demand in this rapidly growing field. Our program goes beyond the classroom by supplying students with industry-relevant projects for the kind of real-world experience that is essential for a successful career in NLP. Industry Experience Our students benefit from working on an industry-relevant Capstone project through the duration of the program. Collaborating in teams of 3-5 with guidance from a mentor, students are able to gain the invaluable real-world experience essential for a successful career in NLP. Find out more about our NLP Capstone projects on our Capstone Experience page . Career Support Building a successful career needs more than just a great resume and performing well at interview. Your success depends on your approach to the process, how you see yourself and respond to challenges. Professional staff at our Career Center help you figure out where you want to go and how to get there. There is a wealth of resources available to help you explore your professional and personal goals. You can sign up for career coaching, additional skills training or have a one-to-one with one of our careers experts. Social Media Upcoming Events Graduates from our program have gone on to roles such as: Data engineer Software engineer Machine learning engineer Applied scientist NLP engineer Computational linguist In leading organizations including: Amazon American Express Astrata Quantcast Megagon Labs Raybeam Sephora Shipt Techcyte The Washington Post Zoom Check out where our alumni are now! A Look at Jobs in NLP Silicon Valley employs a large number of people with experience and expertise in Natural Language Processing. Job search sites like LinkedIn list several thousand openings for natural language processing related jobs. Check out these employment websites for information about career opportunities in NLP: Hired Glassdoor Indeed LinkedIn NLP People Jobs are regularly advertised by companies such as Amazon, Google, IBM, Verizon, YouTube, Bosch, Yahoo, Intel, Nuance, Facebook, and Apple among others. The typical position requires a combination of skills in NLP along with computer science and data science. This demand for M.S. students with expertise in NLP is highly likely to grow in the next decade. Optional Practical Training (OPT) for International Students International students graduating from the NLP M.S. program who are in valid F-1 status are eligible for OPT . Graduates of the NLP M.S. program are also eligible for the OPT STEM Extension. The CIP code for NLP is 11.0102, which is the same as Artificial Intelligence, as listed on the DHS STEM Designated Degree Program List . OPT-related questions should be directed to the International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) Office at istudent@ucsc.edu . Resources for Current Students In addition to individualized academic support provided by the NLP Program Team and faculty, UCSC offers a variety of career support services for NLP graduates. Through the UCSC Career Center , students can: Meet with a Career Coach to explore career goals and develop job search strategies Participate in workshops, fairs, on-campus interviews, conferences and more Access resources to help refine application materials, network effectively and prepare for job interviews The Career Center also provides resources for UCSC alumni as well. To learn more, visit the Career Center’s website. Handshake Our online portal, Handshake helps you search for employment opportunities, register for upcoming networking events, workshops and fairs with employers, make a career coaching appointment or browse job opportunities from vetted employers based on your interests. Career coaching Our team of peer coaches and professional staff can help you develop job search strategies, answer your questions, discuss options, and identify job opportunities. They’ll advise on how best to make contact and build relationships with potential employers. Experience Your capstone project will give you an insight into current NLP challenges. You’ll have the opportunity find out more about the field, current growth areas and advances. You’ll also have the opportunity to meet a range of experts working in a range of contexts with different organizations. Work experience on your resume really helps you stand out to employers. Your capstone project will grow your knowledge, build your expertise and develop your aspirations. Essentials Our careers consultants provide essential skills support that focuses on the crucial skills you need to get hired. This includes everything from writing a winning CV, crafting an excellent cover letter or playing to your strengths at interview. Professional Development Opportunities Fall Quarter 2023 As an NLP MS student, you’ll have access to a variety of professional development workshops, resources, and support services. Each quarter, we’ll highlight workshops and networking events that current students can attend online, at the UCSC Silicon Valley Campus, or at the UC Santa Cruz Main Campus. Check out the Career Center’s calendar on Handshake for more professional development opportunities. How to Get a Job September 25th, 11 – 11:45 AM Online Learn more Proactive Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion October 5th, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more UCSC Silicon Valley Career & Internship Fair October 10th, 4 – 7:30 PM UCSC Silicon Valley Campus Learn more 2023 Fall Engineering & Technology Career & Internship Fair October 11th, 11 AM – 3 PM UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more Conducting an Informational Interview October 11th, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more Curating Your Digital Reputation October 12th, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more Mastodon, Threads, and X: Promote Research on Text-Based Social Media Platforms October 19th, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more LinkedIn Profile and Job Search October 24th, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more Disrupting Imposter Phenomenon from the Inside Out October 25th, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more Conflict Resolution October 31st, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more Writing the CV November 1st, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more Speaking Up to Bias November 2nd, 11:30 AM Online and UC Santa Cruz Main Campus Learn more Review more professional development opportunities for UCSC graduate students on the Graduate Division’s Events page. ABOUT US PROGRAM FINANCIALS APPLY NOW WORKING WITH INDUSTRY YOUR CAREER HUMANS OF NLP THE SILICON VALLEY CAMPUS CONTACT ADMISSIONS CAPSTONE PEOPLE Facebook Reddit Twitter YouTube Mail Natural Language Processing M.S. Program Silicon Valley Campus Email us: nlp@ucsc.edu Apply Now About Us Program Overview Your Career Baskin School of Engineering UCSC Silicon Valley Campus 3175 Bowers Ave Santa Clara, CA 95054 -------------------- Silicon Valley Campus Hours of Operation * Monday-Friday: 8:00am to 9:00pm Saturday: 8:00am to 5:00pm Sunday: CLOSED *Please note that building access may be limited at this time Search for: Contact Us Request Info Natural Language Processing | University of California, Santa Cruz | Regents of the University of California | Privacy Statement | All rights reserved