FAQs for Students: Honors
To acknowledge and reward student academic achievement, Dean’s Honors are awarded quarterly, and University Honors (Summa cum laude, Magna cum laude, and Cum laude) are awarded at graduation. These new honors designations are in addition to the long-standing College Honors and Department Honors awarded to students at graduation. These honors began being awarded fall 2008; they are not awarded retroactively. A description of the Undergraduate Honors Program can be found in the General Catalog's Evaluating Academic Performance section.
Q: What types of honors are awarded to UCSC students on a quarterly basis?  
A: Dean’s Honors are awarded to UCSC students on a quarterly basis.
Q: What types of honors are awarded to UCSC students at graduation?  
A: University Honors, College Honors, and Department Honors are awarded to UCSC students at graduation.
Q: What are Dean's Honors?  
A: Dean's Honors are awarded quarterly to undergraduates who:
were admitted in or after fall 2001;
are in a degree-seeking program;
if full-time, have earned a minimum of 12 credits that quarter, of which at least 10 are graded; or if on the University Part Time Program, have 10 or fewer grades credits; and
have a qualifying term grade point average.
Students who meet these criteria may be ineligible for honors if they have disciplinary sanctions for a violation of academic integrity.
Q: What are University Honors?  
A: University Honors are awarded to undergraduates receiving a degree, who:
were admitted in or after fall 2001;
have completed 70 or more units at the University of California; and
have a qualifying UC grade point average.
Students who meet these criteria may be ineligible for honors if they have disciplinary sanctions for a violation of academic integrity.
Q: What are qualifying grade point averages for Dean's Honors and University Honors?  
A: Please see the page Grade Point Average Criteria for Honors.
Q: How are the grade point average requirements for honors determined?  
A: They are based on the grade point averages of the top 2%, 5%, and 15% of recent graduates.
Q: When will the grade point average requirements be available for the coming year?  
A: Grade point average requirements should be available by the beginning of each fall quarter.
Q: Why are there different grade point average criteria for School of Engineering students than for other students?  
A: Honors eligibility for students whose degree program is in an established School shall be based on the GPA thresholds calculated for that School. Honors eligibility for other students shall be based upon the GPA thresholds calculated for students whose degree program is not part of an established School. (Academic Senate Regulation 11.4)
Q: Who is considered a School of Engineering student?  
A: For the purposes of receiving Dean’s Honors, any student who as of the last day in the quarter has a declared major offered by the School of Engineering. For the purposes of receiving University Honors, any student graduating in a major offered by the School of Engineering.
Q: Some students have a major that is in the School of Engineering and also a major that is not. Which grade point average criteria do they need to meet?  
A: If they meet either set of criteria they will receive the honor.
Q: Where can students see honors?  
A: Dean's Honors appear quarterly on the official and unofficial transcripts. They can also be seen in the Student Advising Summary on the Statistics tab. They appear in parentheses next to the academic standing. University Honors will appear on the official and unofficial transcripts and on the diploma. They can also be seen in the Student Advising Summary on the Degree tab, in the Degrees Awarded section.
Q: When will Dean’s Honors be awarded?  
A: Dean’s Honors are awarded quarterly as grades are posted and criteria are met.
Q: When will University Honors be awarded?  
A: University Honors are awarded after the degree has been posted to the student’s transcript.
Q: Can honors be retracted after they have been posted?  
A: Yes. If a student’s record has changed so the student no longer meets the criteria for honors, the honors will be removed.