Program Overview | Natural Language Processing M.S.

PROGRAM OVERVIEW
Natural Language Processing (NLP) combines the academic disciplines of computer science, linguistics and artificial intelligence to develop computer programs with the ability to understand text and spoken words. This rapidly growing field provides key capabilities for many areas of artificial intelligence. Advances in NLP mean that computer programs can now be developed which understand, generate and learn from human speech. An equally important part of studying NLP lies in developing algorithms, methods and tools for the analysis of both text and speech.
Our flexible 15-18 month in-person program offers an intensive and effective way to immerse yourself in the theory and develop the practical skills needed for a career in this important field. This is a highly specialized program. All our courses are designed for – and are exclusive to – only NLP students and are tailored for the needs of the sector. The program emphasizes practical proficiency in applying the relevant skills through courses focusing on core algorithms in Natural Language Processing, machine learning, and data science and analytics.
This includes applications such as:
Conversational agents (software programs which interpret and respond to users in ordinary natural language)
Machine translation
Question answering
Information extraction
Sentiment analysis e.g. in social media
Text summarization
Electives provide opportunities for you to specialize in specific NLP application areas. The program includes a 15 unit Capstone project where you can gain real-world experience working in small groups on a challenging, industry-relevant NLP problem.
Class sizes are small which means you can benefit from the individual attention and learning experiences you need to really maximize your potential. You’ll also enjoy being part of a small, close-knit community.
You’ll gain the knowledge and skills to equip you for a role in a multibillion-dollar industry which is projected to reach US $43 billion by 2025. And you’ll gain the industry insight and meet the decision makers and employers who can help you on your way. Visit our Working with Industry page to learn more about how we collaborate with industry experts to shape both the design and delivery of our unique curriculum.
To find out more about the cost of this program please visit our Financials page.
Starting Fall 2023, choose the 15 or 18 month curriculum that meets your needs.
What will you study?
Core Courses
You need to achieve a minimum of B- in the following courses
Natural Language Processing 1 (NLP201)
The first course in a series covering the core concepts and algorithms for the theory and practice of natural language processing (NLP), the creation of computer programs that can understand, generate, and learn natural language.5 CreditsQuarter: Fall
Natural Language Processing II (NLP202)
This is the second course in a series covering the core concepts and algorithms for the theory and practice of natural language processing (NLP)—the creation of computer programs that can understand, generate, and learn natural language.
5 credits
Quarter: Winter
Natural Language Processing III (NLP203)
Third and final course in a series covering the core concepts and algorithms for the theory and practice of natural language processing (NLP)—the creation of computer programs that can understand, generate, and learn natural language.5 creditsQuarter: Spring
Data Science and Machine Learning Fundamentals (NLP220)
This course covers a broad set of tools and core skills required for working with Natural Language Data. It covers core traditional machine learning methods such as classification methods using Naive Bayes, SVMs, Linear regression and Support Vector Regression, as well as the use of Pytorch and other programming frameworks commonly used in the field. It also includes methods used for collecting, merging, cleaning, structuring and analyzing the properties of large and heterogeneous datasets of natural language, in order to address questions and support applications relying on those data. It covers working with existing corpora as well as the challenges in collecting new corpora. 5 creditsQuarter: Fall
Deep Learning for NLP (NLP243)
Introduction to machine learning models and algorithms for natural language processing (NLP) including deep learning approaches. Targeted at professional master’s degree students, this course focuses on applications and current use of these methods in industry. Topics include: an introduction to standard neural network learning methods such as feed-forward neural networks; recurrent neural networks; convolutional neural networks; and encoder-decoder models with applications to natural language processing problems such as utterance classification and sequence tagging.5 creditsQuarter: Fall
Advanced Machine Learning for Natural Language Processing (NLP244)
Introduces advanced machine learning models and algorithms for Natural Language Processing. Theoretical and intuitive understanding of NLP learning models will be discussed. Some hot topics such as robustness and explainability in ML for NLP will also be covered.
5 credits
Quarter: Winter
Expert Seminar (NLP280)
Weekly seminar course covering current research and advanced development in all areas of Natural Language Processing. The seminar is based on invited talks by guest speakers from industry research and advanced development working in the area of Natural Language Processing. Students attend talks given by speakers in a weekly seminar series and participate in group discussion. This class can be taken for Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory credit only.2 credits: Must be taken twiceQuarter: Winter, Spring
LEARN MORE
Capstone I (Recent Research in NLP) – NLP271A
The first in a sequence of two Capstone courses providing hands-on practice of key NLP concepts and skills and experience working in a team project setting. The course provides students with tools for project management and teamwork. It also explores multiple possible projects, and methods for presenting projects, and investigates what makes a good project proposal, and how to evaluate and understand the strengths and weaknesses of project proposals.5 creditsQuarter: Spring
Capstone II and III (Project Definition and Implementation) – NLP271B
This course is the second in a sequence of two Capstone courses providing hands-on practice of key NLP concepts and skills and experience working in a team project setting. This course will require students to work in small teams under the guidance of an industry or faculty mentor. In the first part of the quarter, each team will each create a substantial project proposal, and present it to the NLP Industry Advisory Board for review. For the remainder of the quarter, each team will complete the implementation of their project. At the conclusion of the quarter, each team will present their findings at a workshop or poster session that is open to the public. Students will gain experience on the design, implementation, and presentation of a substantial NLP team project.
10 creditsQuarter: Fall
Elective Courses
You need to achieve a minimum of B- in TWO of the following courses. Note: course offerings may vary each year.
Conversational Agents (NLP245)
Reviews recent work on conversational AI systems for task-oriented, informational, and social conversations with machines. Students read and review theoretical and technical papers from journals and conference proceedings, lectures and engage in discussions. A research project is required.
5 credits
Quarter: Winter, Spring
Topics in Applied Natural Language Processing (NLP255)
Gives students a solid foundation in a specific application area of natural language processing, by learning about the theories, methods, tools, and techniques typically used in this area. The application area varies each quarter, with expected topics to include Information Extraction, Question Answering, Natural Language Generation, Sentiment Analysis, and others. Students learn about the state of the art and open challenges, and have the opportunity to explore and experiment with both standard algorithms and new emerging approaches.
5 credits
Quarter: Winter, Spring
Machine Translation (NLP267)
Machine Translation systems can instantly translate between any pair of over eighty human languages such as German to English or French to Russian. Modern translation systems learn to translate by reading millions of words of already translated text. This course covers the models and algorithms used by such systems and explains how they are able to automatically translate one human language to another. The course covers fundamental building blocks using concepts from linguistics, statistical and deep machine learning, algorithms, and data structures. It provides insight into the challenges associated with machine translation and introduces novel approaches that might lead to better machine translation systems.
5 credits
Quarter: Winter, Spring
Linguistic Models of Syntax & Semantics for Computer Scientists (NLP270)
Provides an introduction to theoretical linguistics for natural language processing, focusing on morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics, and on training students in linguistic description, representation, and argumentation. Students learn to describe common features underlying natural languages and to manipulate several syntactic and semantic representations.
5 credits
Quarter: Winter, Spring
Computational Models of Discourse and Dialogue (CSE245)
Focuses on classic and current theories and research topics in the computational modeling of discourse and dialogue, with applications to human-computer dialogue interactions; dialogue interaction in computer games and interactive story systems; and processing of human-to-human conversational and dialogue-like language such as e-mails. Topics vary depending on the current research of the instructor(s) and the interests of the students. Students read theoretical and technical papers from journals and conference proceedings and present class lectures. A research project is required.
5 credits
Quarter: Winter
Information Retrieval (CSE272)
Course covers major topics of information retrieval including: characteristics and representation of text, several important retrieval and ranking models, content recommendation and classification; distributed or federated search, AI semantics and dialog for information access; human factors and interfaces; and evaluation, and domain-specific applications. A research project is required.
5 credits
Quarter: Spring
Advanced Topics in Machine Learning (CSE290C)
In-depth study of current research topics in machine learning. Topics vary from year to year but include multi-class learning with boosting and SUM algorithms, belief nets, independent component analysis, MCMC sampling, and advanced clustering methods. Students read and present research papers; theoretical homework in addition to a research project.
5 credits
Quarter: Winter, Spring
Advanced Topics in Natural Language Processing (CSE290K)
Teaches participants about current methods and directions in active areas of Natural Language Processing research and applications. Students perform independent research and hone skills with state-of-the-art NLP tools and techniques.5 creditsQuarter: Spring or Fall
Sample 4 Quarter Course Schedule
FALL
15 UNITS
NLP 201: NLP-1
NLP 220: Data Science and Machine Learning Fundamentals
NLP 243: Deep Learning for NLP
WINTER
12 UNITS
NLP 202: NLP-2NLP 244: Advanced Machine Learning for NLPNLP 280 4 units required altogether: NLP Seminar
SPRING
17 UNITS
NLP 203: NLP-3NLP 271A: Capstone I1 Elective*NLP 280 4 units required altogether: NLP Seminar
FALL
15 UNITS
NLP 271B: Capstone II1 Elective*
Sample 5 Quarter Course Schedule
FALL15 UNITS
NLP 201: NLP-1
NLP 220: Data Science and Machine Learning Fundamentals
NLP 243: Deep Learning for NLP
WINTER10 UNITS
NLP 202: NLP-2NLP 244: Advanced Machine Learning for NLP
SPRING12 UNITS
NLP 203: NLP-3NLP 271A: Capstone INLP 280 4 units required altogether: NLP Seminar
FALL15 UNITS
NLP 271B: Capstone II1 Elective*
WINTER12 UNITS
NLP 280 4 units required altogether: NLP Seminar1-2 Electives*CSE 297 optional 2 units or 5 units: CPT
* May vary. Please review NLP Elective Courses listed above the sample schedules.
Teaching
You will receive course instruction in the form of:
Lectures
Seminars
Case studies
Group work for collaborative learning
Web-based discussion groups
Assessment
Assessment for your program will take the form of:
Individual assignments
Team project (Capstone)
Individual class participation
Feedback from self-review
Peer evaluation
End-of-semester examinations