Vision | UC Santa Cruz

What you need to know
UC SHIP vision coverage helps you see clearly at a price you can afford. Whether you need a routine eye exam or new prescription eyewear, you’ll pay a lot less when you visit a provider in the Anthem Blue View Vision Insight network.
You don’t need to get a referral for vision care.
Where to get care
Don’t want to leave campus? Schedule an optometry appointment with the SHC Optometry department online or call (831) 459-2389.
For vision care away from campus, it’s easy to find a provider in the Blue View Vision Insight network. Just search by ZIP code or your current location on the Anthem website. If you search as a guest, make sure you select the “Blue View Vision Insight” network.
What you pay
Anthem Blue View Vision network
Here’s what you’ll pay when you use a network provider.
Routine eye exam
One per benefit year: $10 copay
Eyeglass frames
One pair per benefit year: $120 frame allowance, plus a 20% discount on balance
Alternatively, instead of eyeglasses, you can select contact lenses and the allowance and coinsurance associated with them (see below).
Standard eyeglass lenses
Single lenses: $25 copay
Bifocal lenses: $25 copay
Trifocal lenses: $25 copay
Contact lenses fitting and follow-up
Standard lens fitting. After a comprehensive eye exam, plus up to two follow-up visits: $0
Premium lens fitting. After a comprehensive eye exam, plus up to two follow-up visits: 10% discount on the retail price
Note: In addition to the eye exam fee, there is typically a fee for fitting and evaluating the fit of the contact lenses. This will depend on the type of lenses (e.g., for astigmatism or no astigmatism, soft disposable or gas permeable, and the level of complexity). The fitting fee can range from $32 to $300.
Contact lenses — conventional
$120 lens allowance, plus a 15% discount on anything over $120
Contact lenses — disposable
$120 lens allowance (no additional discount)
Out-of-network
When you receive care from an out-of-network provider, you’ll need to pay out of pocket at the time of service, and then submit a claim to be reimbursed up to the following limits.
Routine eye exam
One per benefit year: up to a $49 exam allowance
Eyeglass frames
One pair per benefit year: up to a $50 frame allowance
Alternatively, instead of eyeglasses, you can select contact lenses and the allowance and coinsurance associated with them (see below).
Standard eyeglass lenses
Single lenses: $35 lens allowance
Bifocal lenses: $49 lens allowance
Trifocal lenses: $74 lens allowance
Contact lenses fitting and follow-up
Not covered
Contact lenses — conventional
$92 lens allowance
Contact lenses — disposable
$92 lens allowance
For more information and a complete list of vision plan benefits, review the Blue View Vision Plan Benefit Booklet [PDF]. You’ll also find Spanish and Mandarin versions of the booklet on the Forms and documents page.
Contacts
Anthem Blue View Vision
Vision plan benefits(866) 940-8306
(831) 459-2389