Where to Get Care | UC Santa Cruz

What you need to know
When you’re covered by UC SHIP, the Student Health Center (SHC) provides your primary care and coordinates any additional medical care you might need.
Start at the Student Health Center
As the outpatient student health center on the Santa Cruz campus, the SHC provides outpatient medical, pharmacy, preventive care, and mental health and substance use services. It’s staffed with board-certified physicians, certified nurse practitioners, and physician assistants, all of whom are experts in meeting student health care needs.
To be covered by UC SHIP, you need a referral from the SHC to get medical care anywhere else — except for emergency room care, urgent care clinic visits, pediatric care, obstetrics services, gynecological care, and LiveHealth Online virtual visits.
You’ll pay nothing for preventive care at the SHC, and low copays for other services and procedures. If needed, the SHC will provide a referral for services it can’t provide. Staff at the SHC insurance office can help you find network providers at the UC health center near you or within the Anthem Blue Cross Prudent Buyer PPO network.
Learn more about SHC services on the Student Health Center website.
Know before you go
Without a referral from the SHC, some care won’t be covered by UC SHIP. When necessary, be sure to get a referral so you’re not stuck with an unexpected bill to pay.
Other care options
For those times when you need to connect with a medical or mental health provider and you can’t wait for care, you have options.
Phone an advice nurse
If you have an issue that you can take care of by phone, you can call the advice nurse 24/7/365 at (831) 459-2591. This service is free to students.
Get virtual care
LiveHealth Online provides 24/7 access to doctors and mental health specialists for a low copay. You don’t need a referral to use LiveHealth Online, and if you need a prescription, they’ll send it to your local pharmacy.
Visit an urgent care center
For immediate care, you can also head to a local urgent care center. You’ll pay a moderate copay to see doctors in the Anthem Blue Cross Prudent Buyer PPO network. Use the Sydney Health app or visit Anthem’s online provider listing to search for in-network urgent care close to you.
Urgent care is care for an illness, injury or condition that is not life threatening (does not require emergency room care), but that cannot wait for a regularly scheduled office visit. Some common urgent care needs include treatment for earaches, sore throats, and fevers (under 104 degrees), as well as stitches for simple cuts, and tests for flu, strep and urinary tract infections.
Still not sure where to get care when you need it? Review Where to Go When You Need Care Now [PDF].
When to head to the hospital
If you experience a life-threatening emergency, including severe shortness of breath, loss of consciousness, chest pain, or coughing up or vomiting blood, go to the nearest hospital emergency room.