Contact | Natural Language Processing M.S.
E-mail: nlp@ucsc.edu
On this page you can:
Browse frequently asked questions
Connect with the NLP Support Team and share feedback
Join the UCSC NLP community on social media
Request more information about the program
FAQs
We’ve collated the questions we most regularly get asked to help you find the answers you need.
VIEW OUR FAQs
Connect with the NLP Support Team
We’re here to help you navigate the application process. On this page we’ve detailed the many ways you can connect with a member of the NLP Support Team. After you meet with a member of our team, let us know how the meeting went by completing the feedback form linked below.
Want to discuss your application? Email the NLP Support Team for assistance, and let us know if you’d prefer to discuss your questions in a Zoom meeting. Please note that we cannot estimate an applicant’s chances of admission based on an email or an advising conversation, but we can help you navigate any questions you may have about the application process and requirements.
Attend an NLP at UCSC Information Session: During each application period, we host virtual information sessions where you can learn about the unique benefits of studying NLP at UCSC. View information session dates for the Fall 2024 application period on our Admissions page. Please complete the contact form below to receive updates about upcoming information sessions and to learn more about studying NLP at UCSC.
You can email any questions to nlp@ucsc.edu for general information about the admissions and application process at Baskin.
Admission FAQs: grad.soe.ucsc.edu/admissions
Email: nlp@ucsc.edu
SHARE YOUR FEEDBACK
Meet with the NLP Support Team
Our NLP staff is here to help address any questions you may have about the NLP MS Program, living and studying in Silicon Valley, and the application process. We encourage you to meet with our support team during their weekly virtual office hours listed below.
JOIN AN INFORMATION SESSION
Yuetong Zhang
NLP Program Assistant
Schedule an Appointment
Email Yuetong at nlp@ucsc.edu for support.
All other inquiries
Email: nlp@ucsc.eduOr complete the form below:
Contact Us
Name
*
First
Last
*
Last
Email
*
Subject
*
Message
*
Phone
If you are human, leave this field blank.
This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Submit
Social media
Check out our social media channels
Follow us on Twitter
Like our page on Facebook
Connect with us on LinkedIn
Watch our videos on YouTube
Chat with us on Reddit
Visit us
If you are planning to visit the Silicon Valley Campus, please email nlp@ucscu.edu first so we can help prepare a campus tour for you. Please also check the Slug Strong website for the latest information on COVID-19 protocols for campus visitors.
UCSC Silicon Valley Campus3175 Bowers AveSanta Clara, CA 95054'
Hours of operation: Monday – Friday: 8.00 am – 9.00 pm Saturday: 8.00 am – 5.00 pm Sunday: CLOSED