Natural Language Processing M.S. – Embrace technology and fast-forward your career
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW OPEN!We are currently accepting applications for the Fall 2025 cohort!
The initial application review date is coming soon – April 16, 2025 at 11:59 PM PST
We are offering up to 10 full-tuition scholarships, as well as a limited number of fee waivers for undergraduate students and alumni of all University of California and California State University institutions. For more information, contact us at nlp@ucsc.edu
Why you should study Natural Language Processing at UC Santa Cruz
Our selective Natural Language Processing program is unique. Taught intensively over 15 to 18 months and building on your background in computer science, our program equips you with the skills needed for a successful career in this fast-growing field. Drawing on existing expertise at UCSC, the program is delivered by a team of world-class academics from the fields of natural language processing, deep learning, linguistics, classical machine learning, and data science.
Approximately 90% of our students find employment in NLP and NLP-adjacent industries within 6 months of graduation. If you are interested in entering the explosive world of generative AI and machine learning, our program is tailor-made for you. Our professors and alumni, coupled with local industry engagement, provide the necessary support for you to launch your NLP career.
Close collaboration with an advisory board of senior industry scientists from Silicon Valley R&D ensures that our program has both academic rigor and real-world context. Our expert panel of industry advisors also provide regular guest lectures, mentor teams of students for capstone projects, and attend networking and career events. Small class size enables a high level of customization for each student so that we can meet your individual development needs and career aspirations. You also benefit from being based in state-of-the-art facilities in the heart of Silicon Valley at our campus in Santa Clara.